"Long parameter list" added (Anti-patterns documentation) (#12875)
elixir-lang/elixir: lib/elixir/pages/anti-patterns/code-anti-patterns.md

## Long parameter list

#### Problem

> In a functional language like Elixir, functions tend to be pure and therefore do not access or manipulate values outside their scopes. Since the input values of these functions are just their parameters, it is natural to expect that functions with a long list of parameters be created to keep them pure. However, when this list has **more than three or four parameters**, the function's interface becomes confusing and prone to errors during use.

Reviewer: > functions tend to be pure

I wouldn't focus on purity, since this is not so true in Elixir. Immutability is a subset of purity, and the only one relevant for this explanation I think?

Actually, this is almost true for any language disregarding the paradigm I think, so maybe we should just focus on what's the reason ("interface becomes confusing and prone to errors during use.") rather than what it isn't (fear of mutations).

Reviewer 2: Agreed, the problem here is IMO absolutely not related to the fact that Elixir is functional. A function (or method) with too many arguments is a smell in any language in my opinion. I think the point of this entry in the code smells is to explain readers how to address this smell in Elixir.

Author: I agree that this smell is independent of language or paradigm, so much so that in the original catalog proposed in my research it is found in the "Traditional" category, which are the most generic smells.  

Anyway, that comment about the purity of functions in the introduction to the explanation just refers to a tendency of functional languages like Elixir to have functions with more parameters than in OO.  Let it be clear that this is not a problem, after all every smell is context sensitive, which means that not every function that has many parameters will represent a quality problem... this is just a warning sign that should be evaluated by the developer.  :)

#### Example

> In the following example, the `loan/6` function has an unnecessarily long list of parameters, causing its interface to be confusing and potentially leading developers to introduce errors during calls to this function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `loan/6` function takes too many parameters, causing its interface to be confusing and potentially leading developers to introduce errors during calls to this function.
```

```elixir
defmodule Library do
  # Too many parameters that can be grouped!
  def loan(user_name, email, password, user_alias, book_title, book_ed) do
    ...
  end
end
```

#### Refactoring

> To eliminate this anti-pattern, related parameters can be grouped using `Maps`, `Structs`, or even `Tuples`. This effectively reduces the number of function parameters, simplifying its interface. In the case of the `loan/6`, its parameters were grouped into two different `Maps`, thereby reducing its arity to `loan/2`:

Reviewer: These aren't modules so shouldn't be highlighted like such:
```suggestion
To eliminate this anti-pattern, related parameters can be grouped using map, structs, or even tuples. This effectively reduces the number of function parameters, simplifying its interface. In the case of the `loan/6`, its parameters were grouped into two different maps, thereby reducing its arity to `loan/2`:
```

> To eliminate this anti-pattern, related parameters can be grouped using `Maps`, `Structs`, or even `Tuples`. This effectively reduces the number of function parameters, simplifying its interface. In the case of the `loan/6`, its parameters were grouped into two different `Maps`, thereby reducing its arity to `loan/2`:

Reviewer 2: Tuples are, IMO, a big no-no when doing this. They're essentially the same thing a parameters: unnamed elements. They're just grouped in a container, but that doesn't help much with this smell IMO. Can we just mention structs and maps?

```suggestion
To address this anti-pattern, related parameters can be grouped using maps or structs. This effectively reduces the number of function parameters, simplifying the function's interface. In the case of `loan/6`, its parameters were grouped into two different maps, thereby reducing its arity to `loan/2`:
```

Author: I agree with you that tuples can be less interesting than maps and structs, but I believe there is no need to remove the mention, after all they can be used to decrease the size of the function's parameter list, which is the problem to be treated.  

Out of curiosity, there are some articles about refactoring in Haskell and Erlang, for example, which indicate the use of tuples for this purpose.

Reviewer: I think it depends if the tuple is simply created at the call site and immediately unpacked in the function (no benefit), or if it is used to be passed around to subsequent calls (in which case it can be useful).

```elixir
defmodule Library do

>   def loan(%{name: name, email: email, password: password, alias: alias} = user, %{title: title, ed: ed} = book) do

Reviewer: I think we're sending some mixed signals here since this contradicts [this other point ](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/main/code-anti-patterns.html#complex-extractions-in-clauses)?

Author: Although in this case we are not using guard clauses or even explaining how these extracted values will be used, I agree that we can try to improve. Do you think `def loan(%{} = user, %{} = book) do ...` would look better?

Reviewer: Yes or even `def loan(user, book)` (if we do extract `%{name: name, ...} = user` in the body?
If we want to enforce specific structs, `def loan(%User{} = user, %Book{} = book)` would look good too I think, maybe we can mention both?

    ...
  end
end
```

#### Additional remarks

> Although this refactoring has grouped parameters using `Maps`, we can find, in different functions, identical sets of parameters that could be grouped. These duplicated sets are known in the literature as *Data Clumps*. In that case, is better to create a `Struct` to group these parameters and reuse this to refactor all functions where these sets of parameters occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this refactoring has grouped parameters using maps, we can find, in different functions, identical sets of parameters that could be grouped. These duplicated sets are known in the literature as *Data Clumps*. In that case, is better to create a Struct to group these parameters and reuse this to refactor all functions where these sets of parameters occur.
```

Reviewer: Was about to suggest adding a link to [Data Clumps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_clump), and read:

> A data clump, like other [code smells](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_smell), can indicate deeper problems with the program design or implementation.

I found it ironic that we're suggesting something which is considered a smell in a guide about avoiding code smells 😅 The context is OOP though so it is quite different, but maybe we don't want to link the suggestion to something considered bad practice?

Author: I'm not sure I understood your comment about us suggesting a smell here.  

Long Parameter List and Data Clumps are different traditional code smells, but they can coexist.  In OOP, one way to remove them is to group the parameters of a method in a new class, passing an object of that class in the method call.  This solution reduces the size of the parameter list and still allows reuse, thus eliminating Data Clumps.  What we are suggesting here is basically the same thing, just adapted for Elixir and its features.  

In summary, when we only have a Long Parameter List in a function, we can solve this using only maps.  If we have Data Clumps in several functions, it is better to solve with struct to reuse the grouping that is repeated in these functions.

I don't know if this raised any questions, but just to be clear, a struct is not a Data Clumps.  If the metadata of a struct is used together as individual parameters of several functions, then we will have a Data Clumps.  Example: name, age and gender used together as individual parameters of several different functions is a Data Clumps.  It would be better to define a %User{} containing this group and reuse this definition in parameter lists where this set is repeated.

Reviewer: Oh sorry I misread it as "theses maps/structs/tuples are referred to as data clumps", which is the opposite of what you were saying.
Sorry for the confusion 🙇

Reviewer 3: is this guide just for the grouping? the below issue is something i encounter more frequently

>  Although such cases are rare, it is possible for a method to legitimately take half a dozen or more completely unrelated parameters that could not be cleanly turned into a single object. This, however, suggests that the method is trying to do far too much and would be better broken into multiple methods, each of which is responsible for a smaller piece of the overall responsibility.

Author: > is this guide just for the grouping? the below issue is something i encounter more frequently
> 
> >  Although such cases are rare, it is possible for a method to legitimately take half a dozen or more completely unrelated parameters that could not be cleanly turned into a single object. This, however, suggests that the method is trying to do far too much and would be better broken into multiple methods, each of which is responsible for a smaller piece of the overall responsibility.
> 
> 

You are referring to the lack of cohesion, which can also be one of the causes for a function that has "Long Parameter List".  As there are several possible causes for this smell, I don't know if it's worth trying to delve too deeply into them.  I think it is more interesting to present only the problem and a possible solution, without the ambition of trying to cover all possible contexts (or causes).  This is usually how smell catalogs are structured.

> Although this refactoring has grouped parameters using `Maps`, we can find, in different functions, identical sets of parameters that could be grouped. These duplicated sets are known in the literature as *Data Clumps*. In that case, is better to create a `Struct` to group these parameters and reuse this to refactor all functions where these sets of parameters occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although this refactoring has grouped parameters using `Maps`, we can find, in different functions, identical sets of parameters that could be grouped. These duplicated sets are known in the literature as *Data Clumps*. In that case, is better to create a struct to group these parameters and reuse this to refactor all functions where these sets of parameters occur.
```
